---
layout: project
title:  "NaluCam"
pics: 
    - "/assets/images/nalucam_pic1.jpeg"
    - "/assets/images/nalucam_pic2.jpeg"
    - "/assets/images/nalucam_login.png"
    - "/assets/images/nalucam_navigate.png"
---

## Introduction

In the summer of '18 we decided to buy a dog. Our little friend (a.k.a. Nalu) would arrive in September, meaning summer holidays were over and we'd be back to work by the time of his arrival. During his first days, I was able to take some days off to keep an eye on him. However after a week his first he had to spent his first day 'home alone'.

I'd wanted to keep an eye open on my little friend when I was at work, so I bought a Raspberry Pi, a PiCam a Servo-arm and started hacking something together.

## Tech

When I started working on this project, I was pretty familiar with the Raspberry Pi-hardware and related Python-libraries such as gpiozero and picamera. 
The only thing I needed was some kind of server to tie all lose ends together. At that time we were experimenting at Melexis with the Django-framework.
It's was tempting to start playing here with Django as well, but I realised quite quickly Django would be overkill.

I decided to switch to something more lightweight (and less complex) and ended up with Flask. As a matter of fact, I forked a [repository](https://github.com/miguelgrinberg/campy) on github which included already a big part of the work that needed to be done. I added authentication, a new front-end template and integration with my Servo-arm
and the **NaluCam** was born. The code quality is not that good and testing these kind of things we're pretty hard since we're talking about hardware integrations.

However the **NaluCam** still does the trick and is still used on a daily basis. 

## Improvements and further work

In general the code needs to be cleaned up. I also need to find a better way of testing these kind of things in which hardware is included. Certainly the integration with 
the camera is a pain in the ass; over SSH it's impossible to display images. This means that everytime I'm working on this project, I need to hook up my Raspberry Pi to a monitor, keyboard and mouse. 

Also some cool features such as temperature monitoring and voice integration could be added. It could also be a cool idea to add some kind of small engines and turn the 
NaluCam into some kind of entertaining superdeluxe 'ball fetcher'-machine which can be remotely controlled? Want to contribute? For the project [here](https://github.com/ardtieboy/campy). 
